.. include:: defs.rst

EEPROM management
-----------------

.. warning::
   Writing to the EEPROM can cause very **undesired** effects if the wrong
   value is written in the wrong place. You can even essentially **brick** your
   FTDI device. Use this function only with **extreme** caution.

   If using a Hi-Speed Mini Module and you brick for FTDI device, see
   FTDI_Recovery_


Supported features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

EEPROM support is experimental. For now, PyFtdi_ mostly supports read-only
feature to report EEPROM configuration.

Some features may be wrongly decoded, as each FTDI model implements a different
feature map, and more test/validation is required.

Write access is limited to modifying the variable length strings of the EEPROM,
that is:

 * manufacturer name, *e.g.* `FTDI`
 * product description string, *e.g.* ``FT2232H MiniModule``
 * serial number, *e.g.* ``FT123ABC``

Changing the product description may help to distinguish a specific FTDI device
when several of them are connected to a host, while changing the serial number
may help selecting a specific FTDI device from the command line, as the serial
number may be specified in the :doc:`URL <urlscheme>`.

The :doc:`EEPROM API <api/eeprom>` implements the upper API to access the
EEPROM content.

.. _ftconf:

EEPROM configuration tool
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``ftconf.py`` is a companion script to help managing the content of the FTDI
EEPROM from the command line. See the :ref:`tools` chapter to locate this tool.

::

  ftconf.py [-h] [-x] [-X HEXBLOCK] [-o OUTPUT] [-s SERIAL_NUMBER]
            [-m MANUFACTURER] [-p PRODUCT] [-c CONFIG] [-e] [-u]
            [-V VIRTUAL] [-v] [-d]
            [device]

  Simple FTDI EEPROM configurator.

  positional arguments:
    device                serial port device name

  optional arguments:
    -h, --help            show this help message and exit
    -x, --hexdump         dump EEPROM content as ASCII
    -X HEXBLOCK, --hexblock HEXBLOCK
                          dump EEPROM as indented hexa blocks
    -o OUTPUT, --output OUTPUT
                          output ini file to save EEPROM content
    -s SERIAL_NUMBER, --serial-number SERIAL_NUMBER
                          set serial number
    -m MANUFACTURER, --manufacturer MANUFACTURER
                          set manufacturer name
    -p PRODUCT, --product PRODUCT
                          set product name
    -c CONFIG, --config CONFIG
                          change/configure a property as key=value pair
    -e, --erase           erase the whole EEPROM content
    -u, --update          perform actual update, use w/ care
    -P VIDPID, --vidpid VIDPID
                        specify a custom VID:PID device ID, may be repeated
    -V VIRTUAL, --virtual VIRTUAL
                          use a virtual device, specified as YaML
    -v, --verbose         increase verbosity
    -d, --debug           enable debug mode


**Again, please read the** :doc:`license` **terms before using the EEPROM API
or this script. You may brick your device if something goes wrong, and there
may be no way to recover your device.**

Note that to protect the EEPROM content of unexpected modification, it is
mandatory to specify the ``-u`` flag along any alteration/change of the EEPROM
content. Without this flag, the script performs a dry-run execution of the
changes, *i.e.* all actions but the write request to the EEPROM are executed.

Once updated, you need to unplug/plug back the device to use the new EEPROM
configuration.

It is recommended to first save the current content of the EEPROM, using the
``-o`` flag, to have a working copy of the EEPROM data before any attempt to
modify it. It can help restoring the EEPROM if something gets wrong during a
subsequence update.

Most FTDI device can run without an EEPROM. If something goes wrong, try to
erase the EEPROM content, then restore the original content. For now,
``ftconf.py`` does not support EEPROM restoration, but a Windows-only
application FT_PROG_ is available from FTDI web site.


Option switches
```````````````
In addition to the :ref:`common_option_switches` for  PyFtdi_ tools,
``ftconf.py`` support the following arguments:

.. _option_c:

``-c name=value``
  Change a configuration in the EEPROM. This flag can be repeated as many times
  as required to change several configuration parameter at once. Note that
  without option ``-u``, the EEPROM content is not actually modified, the
  script runs in dry-run mode.

  The name should be separated from the value with an equal ``=`` sign or
  alternatively a full column ``:`` character.

  * To obtain the list of supported name, use the `?` wildcard: ``-c ?``.
  * To obtain the list of supported values for a namw, use the `?` wildcard:
    ``-c name=?``, where *name* is a supported name.

.. _option_e:

``-e``
  Erase the whole EEPROM. This may be useful to recover from a corrupted
  EEPROM, as when no EEPROM or a blank EEPROM is detected, the FTDI falls back
  to a default configuration. Note that without option ``-u``, the EEPROM
  content is not actually modified, the script runs in dry-run mode.

.. _option_m:

``-m <manufacturer>``
  Assign a new manufacturer name to the device. Note that without option
  ``-u``, the EEPROM content is not actually modified, the script runs in
  dry-run mode. Manufacturer names with ``/`` or ``:`` characters are rejected,
  to avoid parsing issues with FTDI :ref:`URLs <url_scheme>`.


.. _option_o:

``-o <output>``
  Generate and write to the specified file the EEPROM content as decoded
  values and a hexa dump. The special ``-`` file can be used as the output file
  to print to the standard output. The output file contains two sections:

  * ``[values]`` that contain the decoded EEPROM configuration as key, value
    pair. Note that the keys and values can be used as configuration input, see
    option ``-c``.
  * ``[raw]`` that contains a compact representation of the EEPROM raw content,
    encoded as hexadecimal strings.

.. _option_p:

``-p <product>``
  Assign a new product name to the device. Note that without option ``-u``,
  the EEPROM content is not actually modified, the script runs in dry-run mode.
  Product names with ``/`` or ``:`` characters are rejected, to avoid parsing
  issues with FTDI :ref:`URLs <url_scheme>`.

.. _option_s:

``-s <serial>``
  Assign a new serial number to the device. Note that without option ``-u``,
  the EEPROM content is not actually modified, the script runs in dry-run mode.
  Serial number with ``/`` or ``:`` characters are rejected, to avoid parsing
  issues with FTDI :ref:`URLs <url_scheme>`.

.. _option_u:

``-u``
  Update the EEPROM with the new settings. Without this flag, the script runs
  in dry-run mode, so no change is made to the EEPROM. Whenever this flag is
  used, the EEPROM is actually updated and its checksum regenerated. If
  something goes wrong at this point, you may brick you board, you've been
  warned. PyFtdi_ offers neither guarantee whatsoever than altering the EEPROM
  content is safe, nor that it is possible to recover from a bricked device.

.. _option_x:

``-x``
  Generate and print a hexadecimal raw dump of the EEPROM content, similar to
  the output of the `hexdump -Cv` tool.


Examples
````````

* Change product name and serial number

  ::

    pyftdi/bin/ftconf.py ftdi:///1 -p UartBridge -s abcd1234 -u

* List supported configuration parameters

  ::

    pyftdi/bin/ftconf.py ftdi:///1 -c ?
      cbus_func_0, cbus_func_1, cbus_func_2, cbus_func_3, cbus_func_4,
      cbus_func_5, cbus_func_6, cbus_func_7, cbus_func_8, cbus_func_9,
      channel_a_driver, channel_a_type, chip, clock_polarity,
      flow_control, group_0_drive, group_0_schmitt, group_0_slew,
      group_1_drive, group_1_schmitt, group_1_slew, has_serial,
      has_usb_version, in_isochronous, lsb_data, out_isochronous,
      power_max, powersave, product_id, remote_wakeup, self_powered,
      suspend_pull_down, type, usb_version, vendor_id

* List supported configuration values for CBUS0

  ::

    pyftdi/bin/ftconf.py ftdi:///1 -c cbus_func_0:?
      AWAKE, BAT_DETECT, BAT_DETECT_NEG, BB_RD, BB_WR, CLK12, CLK24, CLK6,
      DRIVE0, DRIVE1, I2C_RXF, I2C_TXE, IOMODE, PWREN, RXLED, SLEEP,
      TIME_STAMP, TRISTATE, TXDEN, TXLED, TXRXLED, VBUS_SENSE

.. _eeprom_cbus:

* Configure CBUS: 0 and 3 as GPIOs, then show the device configuration

  ::

   pyftdi/bin/ftconf.py ftdi:///1 -v
      -c cbus_func_0:IOMODE -c cbus_func_3:IOMODE
