<html
	xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:py="http://genshi.edgewall.org/"
	xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">

<style>
body
{
	font-family: Calibri;
}
</style>
<body>
<h1>Type a Page <span py:if="preview">(Sample)</span></h1>
<div id="show_instructions" style="font-size:xx-small"><a href="#" onclick="getElementById('show_instructions').style.display='none'; getElementById('instructions').style.display='block';">instructions</a></div>
<div id="instructions" style="display:none;">
	<h2>Instructions <a href="#" onclick="getElementById('instructions').style.display='none'; return false;">hide</a></h2>
	<p>Please re-type the content of the PDF page (a link is provided below). Please note,</p>
	<ul>
		<li>You will need a PDF viewer. If you do not already have a PDF viewer, you can <a href="http://get.adobe.com/reader/">download Adobe Reader</a>.</li>
		<li>Please use your best judgement for including hand-written notes.</li>
		<li>If you encounter something that's unrecognizable or unclear, do your best, then include three exclamation marks (!!!) to indicate that a problem occurred.</li>
		<li>Please use exact capitalization spacing and punctuation.</li>
		<li>In general, do not worry about formatting. Type each paragraph without carriage returns, and include a single carriage return between paragraphs.</li>
		<li>If you encounter tables, type each row on the same line using the pipe (|) to separate columns.</li>
		<li>If the page appears too complex (contains more than 1,000 words or is too difficult to decipher), please reject the job.</li>
	</ul>
</div>
<p>The page is displayed below. If you prefer, you can use a <a
href="${page_url}">link to the page</a> to save the file or open it in a
separate window (using right-click and Save Link As or Save Target
As).</p>
<p><iframe width="100%" height="50%" src="${page_url}">[Your browser
does <em>not</em> support <code>iframe</code>,
or has been configured not to display inline frames.
You can access <a href="${page_url}">the document</a>
via a link though.]</iframe></p>
<p>Type the content of the page here.</p>
<form action="${submit_url}" method="POST">
	<input type="hidden" value="${assignment_id}" name="assignmentId" />
	<p><textarea rows="15" cols="80" name="content"
		py:attrs="dict(disabled='disabled') if preview else dict()"
		></textarea></p>
	<p>If you have any comments or questions, please include them here.</p>
	<p><textarea rows="3" cols="80" name="comment"></textarea></p>
	<p><input py:if="not preview" type="submit" name="submit"
		value="submit"></input></p>
</form>
</body>
</html>
