sharp sharp
sharp-kitchen sharp
sharp-fixed sharp
sharp-utility-closed sharp
sharp-utiliy-closed sharp
sharp-utility-open sharp
sharp-pocket-closed sharp
sharp-pocket-open sharp
sharp-scissors sharp
sharp-scissors-legal sharp
sharp-multi-closed sharp
sharp-multi-open sharp
sharp-scalpel sharp
sharp-exotic sharp
sharp-exotic-open sharp
sharp-exotic-closed sharp
sharp-razor sharp
sharp-axe sharp
sharp-iceaxe sharp
handgun-semi handgun
handgun-semi-polymer handgun
handgun-semi-aluminum handgun
handgun-semi-aluminium handgun
handgun-exotic handgun
handgun-exotic-aluminum handgun
handgun-exotic-aluminium handgun
handgun-exotic-polymer handgun
handgun-revolver handgun
handgun-revolver-aluminum handgun
handgun-revolver-aluminium handgun
handgun-revolver-polymer handgun
ammo-many ammo-pack
ammo-many-big ammo-pack
ammo-many-small ammo-pack
ammo-many-shot ammo-pack
ammo-single ammo-round
ammo-single-big ammo-round
ammo-big-single ammo-round
ammo-single-shot shotgun-shell
ammo-pack ammo-pack
ammo-pack-shot ammo-pack
ammo-pack-big ammo-pack
ammo-pack-small ammo-pack
handgun-semi-mag magazine
handgun-semi-mag-loaded magazine
handgun-semi-slide slide
handgun-semi-frame receiver
handgun-semi-frame-aluminum receiver
handgun-semi-frame-alluminium receiver
handgun-semi-frame-polymer receiver
handgun-revolver-cylinder cylinder
lighter-plastic lighter
lighter-metal lighter
lighter lighter
explosive-grenade grenade
grenade grenade
? uncertain